what happens
if there's an actual marketplace where
the writers are doing all the work for
them and that is really what verb leo's
big innovation was and that's why we're
growing 600 in five years with no
funding
welcome to 20 minute leaders just sit
back relax and learn from the leaders of
today it's a journey each one is
different unique inspiring let's get
started
[Music]
this episode is powered by j ventures a
community
fund in silicon valley in partnership
with lumitec sponsored by homeward
ventures hippo insurance oppos labs
synergy global hillel at stanford leap
birthright excel serena partners and in
media partnership with c-tech
welcome to 20 minute leaders today we're
speaking with steve pacros
steve brings more than 20 years of
startup fortune 500 and non-profit
experience to his role at verbalio as
ceo he applies leading marketplace and
sas principles to create an
industry-leading content creation
platform
steve was part of the early management
team at liveops growing the company into
the largest virtual contact center in
the world and filling roles across
marketing strategy operations and
partnerships steve received his mba from
kellogg's school of business and his
masters in history from wesleyan
university outside the office steve is a
denver native and enjoys ultimate
frisbee and playing guitar
you know 2022
and you know where we're starting to
understand how much we don't understand
about content creation and about how
fast things are moving and
and the different complexities of
creating content understanding where
things are shifting and how consumer
behavior is shifting and with verb leo
as a ceo and you're creating over 70 000
pieces of unique content each year i i'm
gonna to have you explain how that is
even possible and a little and so you
must have learned a few things about
they know how to do it right and how to
and how to distribute and understand how
good these pieces of content are for the
relevant audiences so steve thank you
very much for being here and i'm excited
to hear the story of verbalio
great i'm excited to tell it perfect
well let's start first a little bit
about yourself you know you started with
wesley and started his studying history
later on he went to get your mba in a
northwestern kellogg school of
management but you know going back to
you studying history back in in 1990 to
today running a company that is about
content creation where
where where do these two things lie in
this spectrum of you know your journey
i don't know it's one of my favorite
questions to ask in an interview is
anybody who takes your resume and you
say walk me through your resume and they
may they try to make it all have a theme
and have it make sense those are the
people i never believe and so um
i think the focus of wesleyan is that
it's a liberal arts
is a deeply passionate liberal arts
curious university all focused on
learning as many things you can learning
how to think critically learning how to
write about it analyze discuss all of
those things i think are deeply
interested in also finding out your
passions for the future
how many different things could you
possibly be passionate about so i ended
up with a history degree it was focused
on latin american history i spent two
years living in south america in chile
in brazil i worked for the lab the
brazilian development bank i worked as a
financial reporter in santiago and
uh all of these things just kind of
built together i could have been in uh i
was a few credits away from being an
economics major
for me i just pursued every passion
everything that i found interesting uh
is one of my kind of keys to
uh to how i got where i am was follow
the path of most learning and uh the
things that found you most interesting
they might not have made me the most
wealth along the way i might not have
picked the best companies to uh to fill
the bank account but i found the things
that i found most interesting and then
your people find you if you do that
um and so that's about as close of a
connection as i can get between wesleyan
and leading a starter
well um you know you're mentioning the
you know attempting to find a theme and
obviously i didn't even get started to
talk about the different complexities of
your journey which are
fascinating from working you know in
solar energy in digital marketing
solar digital marketing and then
creating a company that is working with
elderly and seniors in isolation and all
the way to content creation so obviously
this theme of following the path of most
learning i think that's that's really
really cool
five years ago almost six years ago you
know talking about verb leo you're
talking about content creation tell me a
little bit about sort of your
perspective on content creation
sure so i will tell you i didn't found
verbally i took over as the ceo about
six years ago from a journalist
co-founder who had really started it
with the idea of
this is interesting because most
marketplace businesses start with an
entrepreneur who looks at a market
opportunity says where what need has not
been met how can i either how can i
create the product or service to serve
that need
and it rarely starts with there is a
surplus of great talent out there what
do i do with them and so that's really
at the heart of where verbalio is is
looking at the writers and freelancers
and the journalists who
don't have opportunities in the modern
world and wanting to address those and
then looking at seo and finding like
this is the place where great writing is
going to happen
and so i took over when the company was
let's see we're actually over a hundred
thousand pieces of of content per year i
think we were somewhere around uh 10 000
pieces of content here to 20 000 at the
time
wow and the key was
you this is a big challenge for any
marketing channel that that anyone's
involved in which is where are you in
the curve and so very few channels have
moved as quickly as content creation and
seo as far as how rapidly it develops it
evolves every single year
the number of competitors that are
jumping in there because everyone can
play in this channel how do you ride
that the
the the best market numbers that i have
is that it was a 10 billion dollar
industry and uh two years ago and it's
going to be a 40 billion dollar industry
in eight years that is an insane ride
and so yeah what it means is a few
things like every marketing channel
it starts out with
well i have to do this because other
people are doing this and then it
becomes to what could i do then how do i
compete and continue to evolve so i stay
ahead of the curve and still doing well
and the more people get involved then
it's how do i you know how do i find the
best strategic partners how do i find
the best leader so that i can invest
bigger in this with better people so
that i have a strategic advantage and
what now becomes core of my business
which is you can't compete in modern
business without strong content
now you have to do every year you're
going to have to do more of it it's
going to have to be longer it's going to
have to be more in depth it's going to
have to have more interactive pieces and
it doesn't slow down so the better you
get the more better you have to get
later um and so we tried to create a
company that was focused on how do we
supply how do we help our clients have a
true competitive advantage
by creating content high quality content
at scale
uh in deeper subject matter expertise
than anybody else
and so when you're talking you're
talking about a few few different things
here that that intuitively may seem
conflicting you're talking about scale
but you're also talking about deep
expertise how do those two things come
together
so that's the magic this has been really
hard to pull off right a formative
experience in silicon valley i started
in 2004 with a company called liveops
which was one of the original
marketplace sas companies it grew to
really rapidly was ranked you know
really high to go ipo and it was
basically a virtual call center company
before terms like
marketplace services tech enabled
services cloud all of those things
existed and we created a 20 000
freelancer home base freelancer um call
center all created on uh a cloud
platform that could route calls to
anywhere based on performance which
totally transformed the way that our
clients could sell and we were mostly
looking at direct marketers who now
i'll just like this is interesting a
little bit of a tangent before
you would have to hire call center at
eight out eight hours a day every single
worker you have to figure out exactly
how many you have so you try to get
people to call you when you have people
when you have call center agents
available
if you can flip the model around and
make it all incentive based so the call
center agent only gets paid for the
minutes that are on the phone
then you can create a call center that
has 5 000 sales agents all available for
30 minutes and have it disappear after
that
and that totally transforms your
marketing capabilities by using a
different business model
so we use that really effectively to
completely disrupt
different marketing channels with verb
leo i looked at
how do you use that exact same incentive
model um use marketplace incentives like
dynamic incentives like
um probably the core difference of our
platform that aligns uh quality and
scale is that our writers only get
compensated
our writers match themselves to the
clients versus us doing a command to
control outsourcing model so that means
that the writer gets to choose for
things that they're qualified for and
they only get compensated if they've
written a piece that the client accepts
so by doing that at the core of the
model we built an entire technology
platform around it
our writers choose better they have
higher quality because they know they
don't get compensated unless it's good
it's faster so average turnaround time
is 48 hours versus a month
so that's a pretty amazing innovation
and we have an amazing amount of pent up
capacity so we can actually scale 100
in a month handle all of that with our
pent up capacity and still control the
level of quality
and we think about these marketplace
dynamics every day because we think that
the rest of the industry is really
focused way too much on
the
thinking of outsourcing model of like
how to turn into a marketplace is
basically it went from everybody was in
a building and they were hired employees
and then everybody was remote and they
were hired employees and saved you eight
percent on real estate costs and all of
a sudden they were freelancers and saves
you another 10 percent and not having to
pay taxes but what happens
if there's an actual marketplace where
the writers are doing all the work for
them and that is really what verb leo's
big innovation was and that's why we're
growing 600 percent in five years with
no funding
incredible incredible okay so you're
you're on basically understanding that
you're able to create this very unique
marketplace and economy for
the particular you know domain that
you're in you're talking about content
creation you're talking about you know
there's an emerging need you're
understanding that the companies
and and really any business
lives off of their their content
creation is a very very important
marketing vertical and then at the same
time you understand that you have this
you know the it's not just the great
resignation where you have this new
trend where you have you know this skill
and you're able to leverage that skill
through freelancers and and then if
you're able to match these people then
it'll be fantastic what have you learned
about consumer behavior of the people
that require the content
so the people that need the content for
the companies what do they actually care
about what makes for a good piece by a
writer
this is interesting so the way that we
learn this is less so we are we're kind
of meta and that we create our own
content so we're trying to resonate with
our resonate with our audience um but we
also work with over a thousand top
digital marketers every month and so we
watch what their best practices are what
they're requesting as far as that we do
um and so
the most important things is consistency
and relevance so something that
interacts with them
um
i think
the industry of content creation
did a great job of looking at the
technical pieces of seo of what you need
to write for what are the key words what
questions are people asking so
you have
it's it's getting harder to actually
write the unique way or actually putting
quality into the writing so make it more
compelling and making people uh making
your audience want to read it and so i
think the best content marketers out
there are not just writing about the
topics that their audience is looking
for but they're also making it
compelling in a way either in a tone and
voice or particularly relevant
information that nobody else is but
really moving me on be the generic
content that i think fueled the first
wave of seo and we're moving beyond that
and the third piece is
making it interactive there's more video
we acquired an ai video company three
years ago to help us turn every piece of
written content into video because each
audience is going to want to watch and
consume their content differently
it's just going to get harder there's
going to be more design
people are going to look they're going
to view quality in a new number of ways
and you're trying to find what does your
audience look for
got it and so if we're looking today
about you know the tone of voice
the writer's ability to understand what
this company is doing besides just the
actual
content that they need them to write
how do you how do you match the tone the
voice the the the
the call to action that a company may
want to leave their users with
once they read the content once if the
content is written elsewhere how do you
mitigate the dag challenge
so this is a huge challenge that's one
that we think about all the time you're
you're you're definitely the
how do you outsource your voice how do
you get somebody to write like you want
them to right that is the
so there are a few keys to it one is the
class like
with every from anything from a
consulting gig where you hire like a
marketing consultant to any other
consulting gig the
the first key is a good intake form you
need to understand exactly what your
clients looking for what their goal is
with their tone so our
we've put a lot of thought into that and
when you go through our intake process
we try to get as much of what you're
looking for into the platform as
possible so writers can consume it
friction free so there's less friction
in the process of content creation and
so that'll have things like a slider
what's your level of tone do you like to
be whimsical do you like it to be super
heavy do you want it to be evergreen
content do you want it to be a flash in
the pan
and so
the most important thing we ask for is
an example of what you think good
content looks like
and so
that section which the more that you put
into that the easier it is to actually
agree on what quality and good looks
like because it's pretty there's some
objective pieces like grammar and
punctuation but a lot of it is
subjective
so that's kind of the upfront piece the
ongoing piece that's super critical is
building a platform that has feedback
and transparency
and so one of the keys differences to
the verb leo platform is every piece of
feedback you give to any individual
writer as a client will go to any writer
that ever writes for you
and so what happens there is it's very
transparent to the writers they know if
you're a good fit or not they also
instead of training the
the really tiring process of training a
writer one by one you're training your
team of writers that's incredibly
flexible that you don't have to pay for
upfront to be available but that gets
your tone your first piece of content
with us will be your worst because
you'll keep giving more and more
feedback and transparency until the
platform of writers gets you more and
more and so let's say you're doing 100
pieces of content per month
it if it was in your if you own you know
if you hired these people you'd have
three full-time writers if you're
working with verbalio you'd have 10 to
15 freelance writers
with a flexible cost structure where you
could scale up and scale down with no
additional cost but that actually gets
your tone and most importantly they
don't get burned out because they
haven't just written about diesel
engines 100 articles a month for the
last three months
i love it if we're looking ahead and
where the world is going or things that
are are there going to be big shifts in
your in your in your opinion about
content creation or the way that the
people then consume this written content
or are we now on a good trajectory where
we understand where things are and we
understand how things get written the
technology is up to speed with what we
need and we're good to go
it's about to get really exciting so the
big the biggest trend that i'm that
we're witnessing right now is
is creative digital marketers that are
looking at how to use content is a deep
competitive advantage versus a nice to
have so
for example we have a new uh venture
capital back company that's spending
that's creating 20 000 pieces of content
in a short period of time
and this is their main marketing channel
so in the old world you would hire sales
team you would hire your paid marketing
spend would go sky high and you would
try to build as much creation as you can
in the new world we're seeing more and
more businesses that are creating
websites that are all about content to
drive leads works we're seeing them do
the similar type of things so that they
blanket the internet as a new as a new
vertical and all of a sudden content
becomes the channel
and so i think that this hadn't been
explored before for because
there wasn't really strategic capability
to do so
so even if you wanted to you couldn't do
it and now if you can do it more and
more marketers will think of more
creative ways to do it
so
i think
it only gets harder how do you create
more content and more scale the second
big trend is how do you take existing
now everybody has this i consider your
content
all the content your companies read is
basically your portfolio it's your asset
uh of assets that you have allocated and
you're going to fine-tune those so
there's going to be a lot more focus on
how do you take what was working before
your top 10 pieces how do you fine tune
those refresh those with 30 new content
make them relevant for google again get
found and that's going to be a whole new
wave of content
and the third is really going to be
about interactive design video uh and i
don't even know what comes next it could
even be voiceovers and audio um but it's
only gonna it's only gonna get harder
and it's only get more interesting and
more powerful
so going back to the theme of you know
path of most learning and you know the
different non-traditional halfway of
your career
where are you now what where what do you
learn a lot about in your current
position and what you know why are you
so excited about what you're doing
god i'm so lucky um i get to learn so
much so first of all it's my first time
being a ceo i've been doing it for five
and a half years but um it is my first
time doing it
and
when you're ceo and you ask other ceos
to mentor you it's a very easy everybody
wants to mentor a new ceo i don't know
why it's a really awkward great
opportunity it's very much like on your
podcast you just you get to ask
interesting people great questions and
so i
the first thing i asked was um you know
what am i what am i not knowing about
this job that's different than other
jobs
and uh jim franklin who's a big
tech ceo and mentor here in colorado
told me that your job is going to change
every three months and you're not even
gonna know it but you have to pay
attention to it and rewrite what your
job description is so
we are currently
every three months my job gets more
interesting we're about 50 people we
started with 10 all of those required
different management concerns different
levels of sales whatever part of the
company is the the weakest leg of the
stool is where i get to go learn about i
was not naturally a product person but i
i had more product chops now and it just
kind of rotates uh all of that is
fascinating
i also have my own podcast where i get
to do similar things to you which is i
invite on people that i want to talk to
and learn from them every week i learned
during the pandemic that it was well
first of all it's really hard to be a
hyper extrovert during a pandemic and so
it gave me a reason to meet somebody new
every single week and the second was
it's really hard to do that ongoing
learning by yourself
so even if you're a committed lifelong
learner and you want to get there unless
you have a compelling event that forces
you to get better all the time sometimes
you have to create your own compelling
event and so the podcast really did it
for me i have to read i read i interview
way too many authors which means i have
to read their book ahead of time but i
wouldn't read the books otherwise they
would just stack up next to my desk and
uh now i have a chance to go through all
them and ask about a new subject every
week so
uh i consider myself pretty lucky to
keep doing what i'm doing
phenomenal steve thank you so much for
joining me i love the energy i love the
insights and the intentionality and
everything
best of luck with verb leo a such a cool
trajectory in an amazing market that is
climbing and growing so fast
and and something that at the end you
know
we all experience it in our day-to-day
so it's just very very cool and i can't
believe that you have over a hundred
thousand uh content pieces per year
that's just unbelievable steve thank you
very much and stay safe michael thanks
so much for having me great questions
great show
[Music]
you